## 1.0 Introduction

Welcome to Introduction for Health Data Analytics. In this first training task we will get familiarized with Python. Please if you haven't done so already download Anaconda from: https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual. Anaconda comes with a bunch of data science packages already installed which will make things a lot easier for us. 


First we we learn a little bit about coding in Python, although many of you will already have some experience with this, it won't hurt to refresh your memory! 

### Task 1: 

List all the Data Types of Python with examples.  

```
# Strings - text i.e. 'text'
string = 'text'
# Integers - whole numbers i.e. 3950
integer = 3950
# Floats - decimal numbers i.e. 56.9
float = 56.9
# Booleans - true or false 
boolean = True
# Complex - complex values i.e. 5j
complex = 5j
# List - series of variables, i.e. [2, 4, 6]
list = [2, 4, 6]
# Tuple - series of values of fixed size, i.e. (2, 4, 6)
tuple = (2, 4, 6)
# Dictionary - lists of pairs,  i.e. {'two' : 2, 'four' : 4, 'six' : 6}
dictionary = {'two' : 2, 'four' : 4, 'six' : 6}

```

### Task 2: 

Other useful ways of storing data are in List, Arrays and Tuples. Create one of each and assign them to the variables a, b and c respectively. 

```
import numpy as np
a = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
b = np.array(a)
c = (1, 2, 3, 4, 5)

```

### Task 3: 

We are also interested in becoming good software developers so we will need to use conditional, loops. Write an statement where the summation of a variable x+1 will be calculated if the value of x is greater than 2. 

```
x = int(input('Enter value x: '))
if x > 2:
    S = x + 1
    
```

Now incorporate a for loop to calculate the value of n(x+1) for n repetitions where n=3. Store each value of the for loop in an array named y.  

~~~ 

y = []
values = [1, 2, 3]
for n in values:
    v = n * (x + 1)
    y.append(v)
    
~~~

### Task 4: 

Finally we will have a look at creating functions. Functions allow us to compute processes much faster without having to repeat lines of code. Using your code from Task 3, create a function called 'my_cool_function', which takes in the value x and will compute the n(x+1) if x is greater than 2 and for n repetitions where values will be stored in an array named y. Your function will return y. 

```
def my_cool_function(X):
    X = X
    Y = []
    Values = [1, 2, 3]
    for N in Values:
        if X > 2:
            V = N * (X + 1)
        Y.append(V)
    print(Y)

my_cool_function(5)

```

That is your first introductory python coding assignment completed! Hopefully you are now comfortable basic coding in Python!
